=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP06 - Fast Extension

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # Inherits from Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP55 (Holepunching)
    use Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP06;

    # Inform peer we have everything immediately
    $proto->send_have_all( );

    # Explicitly reject a request (instead of ignoring it)
    $proto->send_reject( $index, $begin, $length );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::BEP06> implements the Fast Extension (BEP 06). This extension improves swarm efficiency by
adding several messages that reduce latency during startup and provide better error handling for block requests.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<send_have_all( )> / C<send_have_none( )>

Compact alternatives to the C<BITFIELD> message. C<HAVE_ALL> signals that the client is a seeder, and C<HAVE_NONE>
signals a leecher with no data.

=head2 C<send_suggest( $index )>

Sends a hint to the peer that they might want to request a specific piece. Useful for B<Super-seeding> or distributed
cache optimization.

=head2 C<send_allowed_fast( $index )>

Informs the peer that they are allowed to request the block at C<$index> even if they are currently choked. This is
used to allow "free" initial data during startup.

=head2 C<send_reject( $index, $begin, $length )>

Explicitly rejects a block request. In legacy BitTorrent, ignored requests simply timed out; the Fast Extension allows
clients to immediately retry other peers.

=head1 Callbacks

=head2 C<on_have_all( )> / C<on_have_none( )> / C<on_suggest( $index )> / C<on_reject( ... )> / C<on_allowed_fast( $index )>

Overridable event handlers triggered when the remote peer sends the corresponding message.

=head1 Specifications

=over

=item * BEP 06: Fast Extension

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
