=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Generator - Create modern v1, v2, and Hybrid Torrents

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Generator;

    my $gen = Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Generator->new(
        base_path    => './my_files',
        piece_length => 262144 # 256KiB
    );

    # Add files to the torrent
    $gen->add_file( 'linux-distro.iso' );
    $gen->add_file( 'README.txt' );

    # Add metadata
    $gen->add_tracker( 'https://tracker.example.com/announce' );
    $gen->add_node( 'router.bittorrent.com' , 6881);

    # Generate the .torrent file data (bencoded)
    my $v1_data     = $gen->generate_v1( );
    my $v2_data     = $gen->generate_v2( );
    my $hybrid_data = $gen->generate_hybrid( );

    path('my_project.torrent')->spew_raw( $hybrid_data );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent::Generator> allows you to programmatically create BitTorrent metadata files. It supports the
latest BEP 52 standards for BitTorrent v2 and hybrid swarms.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<add_file( $rel_path )>

Adds a file from the C<base_path> to the torrent. If C<set_align_files( 1 )> has been called, this will automatically
insert padding files (BEP 47) to ensure files start on piece boundaries, which is highly recommended for hybrid
torrents.

=head2 C<generate_v1( )>

Generates a legacy BitTorrent v1 torrent using SHA-1 piece hashes. Compatible with all clients.

=head2 C<generate_v2( )>

Generates a modern BitTorrent v2 torrent. Uses SHA-256 and Merkle trees. Only compatible with v2-aware clients
(Net::BitTorrent, libtorrent, etc.).

=head2 C<generate_hybrid( )>

Generates a torrent containing B<both> v1 and v2 metadata. This allows v1-only clients to participate in the same swarm
as v2 clients. Recommended for maximum compatibility.

=head2 C<set_private( $boolean )>

Sets the C<private> flag. If true, a client will only use trackers and will B<not> enable DHT or PEX for this swarm.

=head2 C<set_align_files( $boolean )>

If true, ensures every file starts at the beginning of a piece by adding zero-filled padding  files. This optimizes
performance and allows for better cross-swarm deduplication.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
