=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::MSE::KeyExchange - Diffie-Hellman Exchange for MSE

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::MSE::KeyExchange;

    my $kx = Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::MSE::KeyExchange->new(
        info_hash    => $bin_ih,
        is_initiator => 1
    );

    # Share this with the peer
    my $my_pub = $kx->pub_key;

    # Compute shared secret once peer's key arrives
    $kx->compute_secret( $remote_pub );

    # Get ready-to-use ciphers
    my $cipher = $kx->encrypt_rc4;
    $cipher->crypt( $plaintext );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::BitTorrent::Protocol::MSE::KeyExchange> handles the low level Diffie-Hellman math and cipher initialization
required for Message Stream Encryption (MSE/PE).

It uses a fixed 768-bit safe prime (P) and generator (G=2) as defined in the MSE specification.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<compute_secret( $remote_public_key )>

Computes the shared Diffie-Hellman secret and derives the RC4 encryption and decryption keys using the info-hash as a
salt.

This method automatically discards the first B<1024 bytes> of both RC4 keystreams to mitigate known weaknesses in the
RC4 cipher's initial output (a requirement of the  MSE spec).

=head2 C<pub_key( )>

Returns the raw binary representation of the local public key (128 bytes).

=head2 C<encrypt_rc4( )> / C<decrypt_rc4( )>

Returns instances of L<Crypt::Stream::RC4> correctly seeded and ready for payload obfuscation.

=head2 C<shared_secret( )>

Returns the raw binary shared secret derived from the exchange.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
