=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::WebSeed - HTTP/FTP Seeding (BEP 19)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::WebSeed;

    my $ws = Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::WebSeed->new(
        url => "https://archive.org/download/my_torrent/"
    );

    # Fetch a piece using segments mapped by the storage layer
    my $data = $ws->fetch_piece([
        { rel_path => "file1.bin", offset => 0, length => 16384 }
    ]);

    say "Successfully fetched piece" if $data;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Net::BitTorrent::Tracker::WebSeed> implements B<BEP 19 (WebSeeding)>. It allows a client to  download pieces of a
torrent from a standard HTTP or FTP server. This is highly effective  for ensuring swarm availability when no regular
BitTorrent seeders are online.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<fetch_piece( $segments )>

Attempts to fetch a piece from the web seed.

Expected parameters:

=over

=item * C<$segments>: An arrayref of segment hashrefs (mapped by L<Net::BitTorrent::Storage>).

=back

Uses HTTP L<Range requests|https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc7233.html> to fetch only the specific bytes required for the
piece. Automatically follows up to 5 redirects. Handles C<410 Gone> status codes by permanently disabling the web seed
instance.

=head2 C<disabled( )>

Returns true if the web seed has been disabled due to a C<410 Gone> error or persistent failures.

=head2 C<url( )>

Returns the base URL of the web seed.

=head1 Architecture

For multi-file torrents, if the URL ends in a slash (C</>), the module automatically appends the relative path of each
file within the swarm to build the target URL.

This module is designed to be called by L<Net::BitTorrent::Torrent> when a piece cannot be found in the P2P swarm.

=head1 Specifications

=over

=item * B<BEP 19>: WebSeed - HTTP/FTP Seeding (GetRight style)

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson E<lt>sanko@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
